OVERLAY COLORS
The masks specified by the \fIbpmask\fR and \fIoverlay\fR parameters may be
displayed as color overlays on the image data.  The non-zero pixels in the
mask are assigned integer display values.  The values may fall in the same
range, 1 to 200, as the mapped image pixel data values and will behave the
same way as the pixel values when the display map is interactively adjusted.
Values of 0 and 201 to 255 may be used and depend on the display server and
display resource definitions.  The expected or standard server behavior is
that 0 is the background color and 201 to 255 are various colors with the
lower numbers being the more standard primary colors.  The expected colors
are:

.nf
        Value   Color               Value   Color
        201     white (cursor)      210     coral
        202     black (background)  211     maroon
        203     white               212     orange
        204     red                 213     khaki
        205     green               214     orchid
        206     blue                215     turquoise
        207     yellow              216     violet
        208     cyan                217     wheat
        209     magenta
.fi

The values 201 and 202 are tied to the cursor and background resource
colors.  These are generally white and black respectively.  Values above 217
are not defined and depend on the current state of the color table for the
window system.

The mapping between between mask values and overlay colors are specified
by the \fIbpcolors\fR and \fIocolors\fR parameters.  There are two mapping
syntax, a list and an expression.

The list syntax consists of
a comma delimited set of values and assignments with one of the following
forms.

.nf
    color
    maskvalue=color
    maskvalue-maskvalue=color
.fi

where color may be a color name, a color value, or value to be added or
subtracted to the mask value to yield a color value.  Color names may be
black, white, red, green, blue, yellow, cyan, magenta, or transparent with
case ignored and abbreviations allowed.  Transparent does the obvious of
being invisible.  These values are based on the default resource colors for
the display servers (as shown above) and any custom definitions may result
in incorrect colors.

The color values are unsigned integers (no '+' or '-') or values to be added
or subtracted are given as signed integers.  The first form provides the
default intensity or color for all mask values.  Note that if no default
color is specified the default will be white.  The other forms map a mask
value or range of mask values to a color.  In a list the last color defined
for the default or mask value will be used.

The addition or subtraction from mask values provides a mechanism to have
the bad pixel or overlay masks encode a variety of overlay colors.  Note
that to display the mask values directly as colors one would use the color
value "+0".  Subtraction may produce values less than zero which then
are not visible; i.e. equivalent to "transparent".

The following examples illustrate the features of the syntax.

.nf
    ocolors=""          Display in default white
    ocolors="red"       Display in red
    ocolors="+0"        Display mask values as color values
    ocolors="+200"      Display mask values offset by 200

    ocolors="205,1=red,2=yellow,10-20=cyan,30-40=+100,50-100=transparent"
.fi

The last example has a default color of 205, mask values of 1 are
red, mask values of 2 are yellow, mask values of 10 to 20 are cyan,
and mask values of 30 to 40 are displayed as intensities 130 to 140.

Expressions are identified by being enclosed in parentheses.
This uses the general IRAF expression syntax (see \fBexpressions\fR).
The mask values are referenced by the character $.  The same named
colors (black, white, red, green, blue, yellow, cyan, magenta,
and transparent) may be used in place of color values. Expressions
must evaluate to integer values.  To avoid needing special handling of
input mask values of zero, all pixels with input mask values of zero
are not shown regardless of the expression value.

There are currently two function extensions, "colors" and "acenum".
In both functions the first and only required argument, arg1, is an integer
value.  Typically this will '$' or a function based on '$'.

The "colors" function maps input values with a modulus type behavior.  The
optional second argument, arg2, is a color value for mapping zero.  As noted
above, if the input mask value is zero it will not be displayed.  However,
functions applied to non-zero input mask values may return a value of zero
which may then be displayed with the specified color.  The default is
transparent.  The next two optional arguments (arg3 and arg4) define a color
range with defaults of 204 to 217.  If only arg3 is specified then
arg4 takes the value of arg3, thus having the effect of a constant
output color.  Positive values of the first argument are mapped to a color
value by

.nf
    if arg1 is 0:       result = arg2
    if arg1 greater 0:  result = arg3 + mod ($-1, arg4-arg3+1)
    otherwise:          result = arg1
.fi

This function is primarily used to make colorful displays of regions
defined with different mask values.

The "acenum" function handles \fBace\fR package object detection masks
which include bit flags.  Each object in the mask has an object number
with value greater than 10.  Values less than 10 are passed along during
detection and generally identify detector or saturated bad pixels.
Along with the the object number there may be zero or more bit flags
set.  This function removes the bit flags and returns the mask number.
The optional second argument, arg2, is a string of letters which selects
pixels with certain sets of bit flags.  The bit flags are:

.nf
    B -- a bad pixel treated as a good for detection
    D -- original detection (i.e. without G or S flag)
    E -- edge pixel used for displaying detection isophotes
    F -- object contains a bad pixel
    G -- grown pixel
    S -- pixel not assigned to an object during splitting
.fi

The default of arg2 is "BDEG" which essentially returns all pixels
in an object.

The acenum function also returns 0 for the pixels with values between
one and ten and -1 for the pixels not selected by the flags.  The value
of zero may be made visible using the colors function.  The two functions
are often used in concert:

.nf
    (colors(acenum($)))
    (colors(acenum($),black))
    (colors(acenum($,'E'),red,green)
.fi

Note that when filling and anti-aliasing the behavior of the overlay
colors may be different than intended.
